you
biologists are trying to unravel a
mystery in northeastern New Mexico more
than a hundred elk found dead on a ranch
about 20 miles north of Las Vegas the
news comes as a shock to Game and Fish
investigators and two hunters just days
away from hunting season News 13s Tina
Jensen has the story sky news 13 flying
over a gruesome discovery on the
sprawling 75 thousand acre Buena Vista
ranch near Mora a massive die-off of
more than 100 l within one square mile
the elk weren't shot so Game and Fish is
investigating just what caused the
deaths which seemed to happen overnight
their top suspicion something called
epizootic hemorrhagic disease fatal
disease is caused by insect bites an elk
could get a fever it's a usually a
pretty fast illness and up 28 to 36
hours later the animals go into shock
and then they die this is the time of
year when it strikes most when it's hot
and elk herds stick together near water
is more common when it's been very hot
the Nats live in areas with I'm standing
water without bow hunting season
starting on Sunday some guided
expeditions in the area may be called
off if it is EHD Game and Fish says it's
not contagious to humans and it's not
spread from animal to animal elk and
deer get it from insect bites which
would be good news for bears in the area
who are already conducting their own
hunt as nature takes its course Tina
Jensen KRQE news 13
you